 Here are the people I mentioned:
Karen Cerulo, order of news
Jeffrey Alexander (Yale)--he wrote a lot, look specifically for work on political discourse and moral binaries;
Austin Kozlowski (Chicago student), working on transformer models using news -- getting newspapers to article.  See his recent article in the American Sociological Review.
Oscar Stuhler (NYU student) -- working on blocks of similar actors / actions -- not published yet.
Some other of my students who might know stuff...
Nick Judd -- knows computational stuff and knows political science stuff super well.
Maurice Bokanga -- mathematical sociologist, not really text oriented, but interested in moral philosophy.
Shilin Jia -- does computational analysis of political discourse, but more interested in change and creativity.  Working on google search data now.
Then I have some younger students, Hyunku Kwon, XY Ma, who are also doing this stuff but maybe not far into it.
There is a lot of work on how newspapers "frame" stories -- that is, how they say "what kind of an event this is" as a way of simplifying and adding moral valence.  Do you say there was a demonstration?  A riot?  Are the actors "the community" or "unknown elements"?  And so on.
I will keep an eye out for papers from info science folks on automatic news writing.  But I don't that field.
-j

My notes:
Jeffry Alexander wrote on moral binaries, i should cite him
Oscar uses a dependency parser to break up what he gives to BERT
for AI-produced news articles, made from scraping the web for news stories, could use our app to NOT take a story because its from a sketchy source
What do people share more, sentiment-wise?
How does sentiments appear on the page, in a 2d geometric sense (is it GOOD GOOD GOOD BAD BAD BAD, or GOOD BAD GOOD BAD etc)
look towards computational social science, information schools
scholar search for "Social Informatics"
Go to FB/Google for internship on this stuff, that's where people are doing this work, political text analysis
When I write my essays, think more on how should readers come to my ideas, not how did i arrive at them.